# MicroPython Stubs: Enhance Your Development Experience

Welcome to the MicroPython Stubs repository! Here, you’ll find a treasure trove of over 3,000 stub files generated by the MicroPython-Stubber tool. Whether you’re just starting out or a seasoned developer, these stubs are designed to supercharge your MicroPython development process.

## What Are Stubs?

Stubs are like cheat sheets for your code. They provide hints, auto-completion, and static type checking, making your life as a developer easier and more productive. Here’s what you can expect from these MicroPython stubs:

1. **Faster Coding**: With stubs, you’ll write code more quickly and confidently. No more guessing function names or parameters!
2. **Fewer Errors**: Stubs help catch mistakes early. If you provide incorrect arguments, you’ll get immediate feedback.
3. **Code Completion**: Say goodbye to endless Googling. Stubs provide context-aware auto-completion, even for board-specific features.
4. **Static Type Checking**: By adding typing information, you’ll catch type-related bugs before they cause runtime issues.

## Installation

There are two main ways to install the stubs into your environment

1. Store the stubs in a folder in your repo or somewhere else on a disk, the default for this is a `typings` folder in the root of your project.
   The advantage is that this method works without even needing Python (the full CPython) on your computer.
   Also if you have multiple projects using the same version of the same stubs , you can use symlinks to save a few cents on harddrive space.
   Removing the stubs is simple - you can just delete the typings folder.

2. Install the stubs into your active python virtual environment (venv) 
   If you use python on your host computer and use venv (or virtualenv) you can install the stubs into that same venv.
   most IDEs and tools will use the stubs in that environment when they detect it. Removing the stubs is done using `pip uninstall ...` 

### Option 1: typings Folder (Recommended)

1. Install the stubs in a `typings` folder within your project:
   
   ```bash
   pip install -U micropython-<port>[-<board>]stubs --no-user --target ./typings
   ```

2. Enjoy enhanced code completion and type checking!

### Option 2: Virtual Environment (venv)

A Python virtual environment keeps dependencies separate for different projects. It’s a crucial tool for developers. To create and activate a virtual environment in your project directory, follow these steps:

#### Activate your virtual environment (if you’re using one).

##### For Linux/Mac:

```bash
python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
```

##### For Windows:

```bash
python -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

#### Install the stubs:

1. ```bash
   pip install -U micropython-<port>[-<board>]stubs --no-user
   ```

> [TIPS]
> 
> **Requirements File**: Consider adding a `requirements-dev.txt` file to your project with the specified stubs. It’ll help keep your development environment consistent.

```bash
pip install -U micropython-stm32-stubs --target typings --no-user

# Install stubs for a specific version.
pip install -U micropython-esp32-stubs==1.20.0.* --target typings --no-user

# Install stubs for a specific board.
pip install -U micropython-rp2-pico_w-stubs --target typings --no-user
```

## 

## Using / mixing different ports or boards

You should be aware that the stubs fro different boards and ports are all installed into the same location.

So in you attempt to install or uninstall different stub-packages or versions into a folder or environment, then the result may be not what you expect, as it is essentially a "last writer wins" scenario, and it is likely there will be some stubs left, or missing.

This is one of the reasons I prefer to use a `typings` folder as that give good clarity on what is included, and what not.

## Folder structures

If you install into a typing folder, the resulting folder structure is:

```
.
└── typings
    ├── micropython_rp2_pico_w_stubs-1.20.0.post5.dist-info
    ├── micropython_stdlib_stubs-1.1.2.dist-info
    ├── stdlib
    │   ├── asyncio
    │   ├── collections
    │   ├── os
    │   ├── sys
    │   └── _typeshed
    └── uasyncio
```

if you install into an virtual environment the stubs will be stored in `site-packages`

```
.venv/lib/python3.12/site-packages/
├── micropython_rp2_pico_w_stubs-1.20.0.post5.dist-info
├── micropython_stdlib_stubs-1.1.2.dist-info
├── pip
│   ├── ...
├── pip-24.0.dist-info
├── stdlib
│   ├── asyncio
│   ├── collections
│   ├── os
│   ├── sys
│   └── _typeshed
└── uasyncio
```
